Created concurrent batches page (#6601)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-properties/concurrent_batches.md

---
title: "concurrent_batches"
resource_types: [models]
datatype: model_name
description: "concurrent_batches - Read this in-depth guide to learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."
---
Available from dbt v1.9 or with [the dbt Cloud "Latest" release track](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) dbt Cloud.
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Project file">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

> `concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

Author: ```suggestion
`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
```

---
title: "concurrent_batches"
resource_types: [models]
datatype: model_name
description: "concurrent_batches - Read this in-depth guide to learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."
---

> 

Reviewer: is this avail in 1.9 and higer? + latest release track? if so, do we want to add a version sentence here?

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Available from dbt v1.9 or with [the dbt Cloud "Latest" release track](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) dbt Cloud.
```

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Project file">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

> `concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

Reviewer: should we link to the parallel execution page on this intro line? (rather than the end of the doc?)

> ## [`{{ this }}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/this)

Reviewer: i'm not sure i get the flow of this section here? if we're adding it here, why aren't we adding the full 'how parallel execution works' section in the microbach page?

dbt automatically detects if a model uses the `{{ this }}` Jinja function. When `{{ this }}` is referenced, the batches execute sequentially because `{{ this }}` points to the current model's database relation, and referencing the same relation can lead to conflicts. If `{{ this }}` is not detected, and the concurrent_batches value is not explicitly set (along with other conditions being met), the batches will execute in parallel.

> For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works)

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: "concurrent_batches"
resource_types: [models]
datatype: model_name
description: "concurrent_batches - Read this in-depth guide to learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."
---
Available from dbt v1.9 or with [the dbt Cloud "Latest" release track](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) dbt Cloud.
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Project file">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
## Parallel batch execution
```

> ## Parallel batch execution

Author: ```suggestion
## Parallel batch execution

The microbatch strategy offers the benefit of updating a model in smaller, more manageable batches.

Parallel batch execution means that multiple batches are processed at the same time, instead of one after the other (sequentially) for faster processing of your microbatch models.

dbt automatically detects whether a batch can be run in parallel in most cases, which means you don’t need to configure this setting. However, the concurrent_batches config is available as an override (not a gate), allowing you to specify whether batches should or shouldn’t be run in parallel in specific cases.

For example, if you have a microbatch model with 12 batches, you can execute those batches to run in parallel. Specifically they'll run in parallel limited by the number of [available threads](https://docs-getdbt-com-git-nfiann-rbip-dbt-labs.vercel.app/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-threads).

A batch can run in parallel only if it meets the [following conditions](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works):

- It is not the first batch.
- It is not the last batch.
- The adapter supports parallel batch execution.
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    cumulative_metrics_model:
      +concurrent_batches: false
```
</File>      
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> dbt automatically detects if a model uses the `{{ this }}` Jinja function. When `{{ this }}` is referenced, the batches execute sequentially because `{{ this }}` points to the current model's database relation, and referencing the same relation can lead to conflicts. If `{{ this }}` is not detected, and the concurrent_batches value is not explicitly set (along with other conditions being met), the batches will execute in parallel.

Author: ```suggestion

```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> ## [`{{ this }}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/this)

Author: ```suggestion

```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> - The adapter supports parallel batch execution.

Author: ```suggestion

```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> - It is not the last batch.

Author: ```suggestion

```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> - It is not the first batch.

Author: ```suggestion

```

```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    cumulative_metrics_model:

>       +concurrent_batches: false

Author: ```suggestion
      +concurrent_batches: false
```

</File>
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
    concurrent_batches=False
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>
```

> A batch can run in parallel only if it meets the [following conditions](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works):

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: "concurrent_batches"
resource_types: [models]
datatype: model_name
description: "concurrent_batches - Read this in-depth guide to learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."
---
Available from dbt v1.9 or with [the dbt Cloud "Latest" release track](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) dbt Cloud.
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Project file">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).

> ## Parallel batch execution

Author: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> The microbatch strategy offers the benefit of updating a model in smaller, more manageable batches.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 
```

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> For example, if you have a microbatch model with 12 batches, you can execute those batches to run in parallel. Specifically they'll run in parallel limited by the number of [available threads](https://docs-getdbt-com-git-nfiann-rbip-dbt-labs.vercel.app/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-threads).

Author: ```suggestion

```

A batch can run in parallel only if it meets the [following conditions](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works):

- It is not the first batch.
- It is not the last batch.

> - The adapter supports parallel batch execution.

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 

I've rolled in your suggestions. But would you mind giving your opinion on this final section "A batch can run in parallel only..." Do you think it's worth me adding it here or deleting it as I've linked it out earlier?

Kind Regards
Natalie

Reviewer: discussed during standup

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> dbt automatically detects whether a batch can be run in parallel in most cases, which means you don’t need to configure this setting. However, the concurrent_batches config is available as an override (not a gate), allowing you to specify whether batches should or shouldn’t be run in parallel in specific cases.

Author: ```suggestion

```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

> Parallel batch execution means that multiple batches are processed at the same time, instead of one after the other (sequentially) for faster processing of your microbatch models.

Author: ```suggestion

```

```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    cumulative_metrics_model:

>       +concurrent_batches: false

Author: ```suggestion
      +concurrent_batches: false
```
</File>
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
</File>
```

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    cumulative_metrics_model:
      +concurrent_batches: false

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
</File>
```

---
title: "concurrent_batches"
resource_types: [models]
datatype: model_name
description: "concurrent_batches - Read this in-depth guide to learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."
---

> Available from dbt v1.9 or with [the dbt Cloud "Latest" release track](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

:::note

Available in dbt Core v1.9+ or the [dbt Cloud "Latest" release tracks](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks).

:::
```

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Project file">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +concurrent_batches: True
```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    concurrent_batches=True,
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

> By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the concurrent_batches config in your dbt_project.yml or model .sql file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet all the conditions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the `concurrent_batches` config to `false` in your `dbt_project.yml` or model `.sql` file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet these conditions: 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If you've configured a microbatch incremental strategy and you're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order, you can override the default by setting concurrent_batches: false. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You've configured a microbatch incremental strategy.
* You're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order.

Set `concurrent_batches` config to `false` to ensure batches are processed sequentially. For example: 
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    cumulative_metrics_model:
      +concurrent_batches: false
```
</File>

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
    concurrent_batches=False
  )
}}
select ...

```
</File>

> This ensures that batches are processed sequentially.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "concurrent_batches"
resource_types: [models]
datatype: model_name

> description: "concurrent_batches - Read this in-depth guide to learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about concurrent_batches in dbt."
```

---

:::note

Available in dbt Core v1.9+ or the [dbt Cloud "Latest" release tracks](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks).

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Project file">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:

>   +concurrent_batches: True

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  +concurrent_batches: true
```

```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sql file">

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',

>     concurrent_batches=True,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    concurrent_batches=true,
```

    incremental_strategy='microbatch'
        ...
  )
}}
select ...
```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Definition

> `concurrent_batches` is an override which allows users to decide whether or not they want to run their batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`concurrent_batches` is an override which allows you to decide whether or not you want to run batches in parallel or sequentially (one at a time).
```

For more information, refer to [how batch execution works](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-parallel-batch-execution-works).
## Example

By default, dbt auto-detects whether batches can run in parallel for microbatch models. However, you can override dbt's detection by setting the `concurrent_batches` config to `false` in your `dbt_project.yml` or model `.sql` file to specify parallel or sequential execution, given you meet these conditions: 
* You've configured a microbatch incremental strategy.
* You're working with cumulative metrics or any logic that depends on batch order.

Set `concurrent_batches` config to `false` to ensure batches are processed sequentially. For example: 

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    cumulative_metrics_model:
      +concurrent_batches: false
```
</File>

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    incremental_strategy='microbatch'

>     concurrent_batches=False

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    concurrent_batches=false
```
